Standby first set up incoming


01/15/2025:
Notes for phase 0:
Known pages neede to fix:
ChessPosition
ChessPiece
ChessMove
ChessBoard


Test types:
King: Just check friendly pieces
Rook: Capturing pieces stops movement, remove all values after that from move list.

Why king tests are failing:  Not checking for block from friendly piece.

To do for tomorrow:
implement movement for all other pieces.  Remember literal edge cases, and we can now set up loops for the 
pieces that move in a line.  Knight is going to be a bit annoying though.

Phase 0 tests that pass:
Bishop
King
Knight
Rook


Phase 2 notes
Figure out the phase 3 specs.
Creat a diagram for each endpoint(URL's with code attached to it).  There are 7, and we will implement them all in phase 3
We only need to create six diagrams as one is taken care of as an example.
The one that's done for us is register.
You may want to check a few of the links to figure out how the site works and how to set up the diagrams.


Phase 3 notes:
Currently I'm following the layout on the example known as pet shop on the github.  Important note here is that we don't need to use the websocket stuff,
the data base stuff, or the SQL stuff.  From what I can tell the points we need to work on are all going to be in the main folder for this phase.




2/23/2026 update:
Read before jumping in tomorrow.  We're about halfway through the register user function which is good.  I think once we get that we should be able to
set up the log in and log out functions fairly easily.  See if we can have those in the ground by tomorrow.  Delete should be fairly easy to.
Here's what we need to do:
We need to be able to take the data that we have passed into memory and made sure that it's unique for the setting.  Once we do that we need to add the
user to the hash map.
Once that's done we need to generate an auth token and add that as well.
After that's all said and done we need to return those values to the user with a 200 success code.  Follow the flow chart that we made and we should
be good to go.  Rock on, you've got this self.

2/24/2026 update
Register, Log in, and Log out are all set.  Well mostly.  The storage for the token hashmap is a bit goofy and I don't have the return statement quite
right for the log out function.  I think tomorrow we need to take a run at create games.  Get some help from a TA as a starting point and make it run!


2/26/2026 update:
Base levels for 200 status code work, now it's time to start throwing exceptions
reg: 400 and 403
LogI: 400 and 401
LogO: 401 Done
List: 401 Done
Create: 400 and 401
Join: 400, 401, and 403

2/27/2026 things to note:
Write a positive and a negative JUNIT test case for each public method on your Service classes, except for Clear which only needs a positive test case.
A positive test case is one for which the action happens successfully (e.g., successfully claiming a spot in a game). A negative test case is one for
which the operation fails (e.g., trying to claim an already claimed spot).

The service unit tests must directly call the methods on your service classes. They should not use the HTTP server pass off test code that is provided
with the starter code.

03/02/2026:  Service tests and how to write pass/fail cases
change the positive outputs to match the negative style.
Get user:  Returns auth token throws 403 done
Log User:  Returns auth token throws 401 done
Authenticate:  True or false
Log out: Returns blank throws done
Link auth:  Returns authorized, unknown
DB clear:  Returns nothing.

CreateGame:  Returns ID, returns -1
Return Games:  returns games, returns null
Join game:  Returns empty string throws 403

Thing for a new commit.

3/12/2026:
Files I have edited to make the autograder happy.
User Service
User Handler
Service Tests
Chess Game
Chess Piece
Chess Board
Game Service
Server.java
Memory Data Access


3/20/2026
create auth, ctx
join auth, ctx
list auth

03/24/2026
In order to draw a nobserved game we need to write one more function return single game.  The good news is that we have
the function set up in side of data access.  We just need to write the line to get there.  Use Game service to get there.


return back to the main screen after log out.
Reset back to level 1
stop drawing the chess board so much
More detailed fail statements.

03/25/2026
Okay note to self we have to have the server running if we're wanting to run the tests.

03/28/2026
Battle plan:  Each day this coming week I want us to have check in points and benchmarks to try to hit.  If we don't get
there all the way that's fine, but I want us to be shooting for something at the very least.
Monday:  Double check the board draw function on the black side, set up all needed code parts in the set up phase, put
together the menu for phase three.  You don't have to have functionality on it, just set it up.
Tuesday:  Today I want us to figure out how to draw the board bassed off of a game.  Spend time in the TA lab and look
at the Github for help.
Wednesday:  Reevaluate efforts and look to see what we've gotten done.  If we've got it to the point where we can pass
in a game, and it's read correctly continue to full menu three functionality.  Else, continue to work read in capabilities
and replan the rest of the week.
Thursday:  Keep working the menu three functionality, I suspect this will take us quite some time, if possible look into
websocket and possibly start integrating that.
Friday:  Go full websocket here.  Doesn't have to be done, but I want it started here.

** This is our finest and final hour for this project.  I know it's going to be a busy week with loaded weeknights.  Take
care of yourself and your mental health.  There's no point in burning out and over exerting.  Keep this load balanced and
trust in the Lord.  You've got this.